---
title: 'v0.4.1 - Collection Support'
image: /uploads/kavita-logo.webp
date: 2021-06-05
tags:
  - 'Release'
---

Collections are here! You can now tag your series with custom tags to group and explore them. A collection is a custom tag that can be applied to any series in Kavita. You can view all collection tags on the home page or by clicking the "Collections" header above the reel on home page. From there you can drill down and view all your collection tags.



If you need to quickly remove a few series from a collection tag, click the actions button on the collection tag and you can quickly use Edit action to modify multiple series at once. 



Collections don't have to just be for you. Do you have users? Want to promote a collection to all your users but keep some private to just you? Well you can do that. In that same edit action above, you can Promote a collection to be server-wide. All users can see the items with that collection (assuming they have access to those libraries), while the admin has complete control over what gets marked in it. 



**Note: There was a critical issue. The assets on this release have been updated.**



# Added

- Collection support which allows admins to tag series and view them in a collection with cross library support. 

- Dark Mode! Each user can set their preference if they want to use Kavita with a custom dark theme. Persists across devices.

- Sentry Integration. Sentry is an error management platform to help the developers catch errors before it becomes a problem. All data is anonymized. 

- JWT Token Key Generation on startup. New users will not need to setup their own encryption key (but still can if they wish to)

- Added 7z, 7zip, and cb7 archive support

- We now build Raspberry Pi docker images

- (Book Reader) Added reading direction to the book reader, to keep feature parity with Manga reader

- (Book Reader) Scroll position is now saved (and resumed on any device) on books that have chapter markers on a single page (usually Light Novels)

- Recently Added and Collections pages from the carousel reel headers on home page





# Fixed

- A multitude of issues around Continuous Manga next/previous chapters when there were multiple chapter files per virtual Volume. 

- Fixed an error when parsing a filename with Part, where Part was taken as Chapter despite Chapter being in the title (ie Tomogui Kyoushitsu - Chapter 006 Game 005 - Fingernails On Right Hand (Part 002).cbz)

- Fixed an issue around order in which chapters are inserted into the DB

- Rewrote Continue Reading button to work more consistently 

- MinimumNumberFromRange would throw an exception when non numeric characters would somehow get into the range field. Now the code will default to 0.0 whenever there is invalid data.

- Fixed a bug where archives with nested folders and folders of files with special characters would cause the end cached result to be skewed and the reading order would not be consistent

- Fixed an issue on Windows OS where once an epub was opened in Kavita, the file was locked to the Kavita process

- Fixed an issue where an admin changing the password for a user would cause the admin to be logged out and the password not changed

- Removed Webtoon as an option when creating libraries. It is handled by Manga already

- Some metadata keys get URI Encoded in epub html which led to failed lookups for anchor rewriting

- Scroll to Top button doesn't disappear when scroll is at the top

- Fixed a bug which when dark mode was activated or not, due to new system, the styles of the body would leak into the manga reader and background would not be black.

- Fixes an issue where btn-information in dark mode was unreadable

- Fixed an issue where if user came as null for some reason, a redirect to Login failed

- Fixed a bug where opening settings sidenav then navigating to a new page in book reader would push the side nav down

- Fixed an issue where carousel series card scan library would kick off the wrong library



# Changed

- Password requirements have been changed to 6-32 characters length

- Increased the resolution of the Windows Icon

- Book Reader now handles style scoping @import statements

- When user becomes unauthenticated, quickly throw an exception to UI to inform them

- Library Backup label is now "Library Database Backup" in the Server Settings

- Changed Tabs on Series Detail to now be "smart". The tabs now auto-select based on the data.

- When using Continuous Reading on manga reader, the url will now update after you cross chapter boundary

- Section Title links on carousel reels now show an underline on hover/focus informing user they can click on it