---
title: 'Hotfix 0.5.2.3 - SortName & Invite User Redirect fix'
image: /uploads/gallery/kavita-logo.png
date: 2022-04-05
tags:
  - 'Release'
---

There were some unfortunate issues that slipped through release testing, so please update. The main focus for this hotfix is around SortName on series, which was getting cleared during a scan and not repopulated, thus breaking the sorting logic within Kavita. 



In addition, some issues were found around Invite user, where unauthenticated browsers would not properly show the registration screen. These and a few more bugs reported have been fixed.



**Please note, On Deck is still not functioning as expected from previous release and in this hotfix. It is planned to get a full treatment to align to my vision. Please make due with it as is.** 



Note 2: The hotfix is skipping patch .1 and .2 in order to better align with our nightly users. 



# Changed

- Changed: Slightly tweaked the logic of On Deck to consider chapters in a series that have been created within 30 day cutoff in addition to having been read. This does not fix the inherit issues with it, but serves as a first start. 



# Fixed

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where some events weren't being sent to admin clients only

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where on scan, if SeriesSort wasn't set in ComicInfo, it would get cleared, thus breaking sorting on library detail page 

- Fixed: Fixed an issue where when falling back to folder parsing, sometimes when the folder name wouldn't parse well, like 'Foo 500' which parses as 'Foo'. Now the fallback will check if we have a solid series parsed from filename before we attempt to parse a folder. 

- Fixed: Ensure SortName is always being set during a scan loop, even if locked, to ensure that it's never just an empty string (which breaks sorting)

- Fixed: Fixed some errors being thrown from metadata update for files that haven't had a summary set.

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where updating a series name to an existing name in the system wouldn't throw an error 

- Fixed: Hide the side nav hamburger toggle when not authenticated

- Fixed: Fixed some logic issues around determining which releases are installed, available, etc from Announcements page. 

- Fixed: On Firefox, upload cover image via url had different event properties than other browsers and would completely fail.

- Fixed: Confirm email (invitation link) would redirect to login when not authenticated due to side nav having an authenticated call in it. 

