---
title: 'v0.7.7 - Localization!'
image: /uploads/gallery/kavita-logo.png
date: 2023-08-10
tags:
  - 'Release'
---

This release is a milestone for me as it marks the completion of everything I initially envisioned for Kavita when I first launched the project and gained my first user feedback. Kavita has grown tremendously over the past few years of building it and has been shaped in ways I would have never known when I first set off to build the project. With all that said, I want to thank all our users for their continued support and ideas to shape the product and my wife, who allows for me to put so much of my time into this project. I have many things planned for the future and I look forward to your feedback.



Without further ado, localization has finally landed in Kavita! For those that read my changelogs, you'll know that last release I had already dropped 60 hours of work keying all the strings in the app. Since then, the community and I have added another 30. This has been a huge effort. Localization is no easy task and as of this launch, there is no 100% localized translations. Going forward, localizations will be released on nightly as they are ready and with the stables. Users can always manually pull the files if needed. If you want to help us translate Kavita into your language of choice, please check out our [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/engage/kavita/).



For those that have tried out Kavita+, I want to first thank you. I see very active traffic and everyone I have spoken to has provided great feedback. Please use of [feature hub](https://feats.kavitareader.com) if you have ideas for Kavita or Kavita+. I have more plans for Kavita+ in the future, however, I have some critical Kavita features that need to get released before I can work on them. 



Lastly Kavita is now officially on [Linuxserver.io](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/kavita)! A huge thanks to Aptalca and Linuxserver.io team for their collaboration in creating and releasing the docker image! 



**This is not a Kavita issue, but Panels has been made aware and fixed an issue in their code which prevented images to load from Kavita OPDS connections. This will be available on an upcoming release from Panels. Thank you @howdy-im-david for driving this effort.** 



# Added

- Added: Kavita now supports localization. A new language will only appear when both Frontend and Backend localization files exist. If a localization key is missing in a user's locale, English will be the fallback. Note: Some items are not yet localized. 

- Added: Epub books will now populate weblinks by joining dc:identifier tags with url: values.

- Added: Added progress bars on the readme to help motivate users to get all the languages translated

- Added: Added a new shield on the readme that shows how many active installs Kavita has (for those that have opted into Stats)



# Changed

- Changed: Updated all fonts to be woff2 which are faster to load and render

- Changed: Many strings were unified, sometimes less verbose, sometimes more.

- Changed: All dates are now sent in UTC and displayed in local timezone

- Changed: Compact numbers (3.2K -> 3,200) are now respecting your locale (so Turkish users will see 3,2 B)

- Changed: Last Added To -> Last Item Added to be more clear in Edit Series info section.

- Changed: (Not user facing) Login page now accepts a user's apiKey and will auto login with that. This is for an upcoming feature.



# Fixed

- Fixed: Fixed character tags being empty in item list 

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where Scan series task wasn't properly updating underlying chapter metadata when it should have.

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where downloads could trigger on lazy loaded module boundaries

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where remove from on deck would should for all series cards when it shouldn't have

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where virtualized reading list page (> 100 items) wasn't showing the correct order in the input box 

- Fixed: Fixed library detail page showing duplicate series during a scan 

- Fixed: (Kavita+) Fixed a case where when setting up initial rates for scrobbling, Kavita could print as if a user had rate limit

- Fixed: Fixed a bug with reading lists where re-ordering via the input wouldn't respect order

- Fixed: Fixed a bug with double slash in opds url

