---
title: 'v0.7.11.2 - Hotfix 2'
image: /uploads/kavita-logo.webp
date: 2023-12-10
tags:
  - 'Release'
---

Unfortunately a few more bugs surfaced after the last hotfix, one being a problem with extracting weblink id's for Kavita+ matching along with an annoying bug with side nav being wiped out for fresh install admins. This is the last release for the year.



## Remember to use the new [Docker Central Repo](https://hub.docker.com/r/jvmilazz0/kavita)! Updates are not going to the old one. 



# Changed

- Changed: Backups now show the version of Kavita in the filename

- Changed: Moved some cleanup tasks within another task to ensure everything is processed at the same time.

- Changed: Changed the readme to point to the correct type of projects.

- Changed: (Kavita+) When sending requests to Kavita+, MangaDex Ids will be sent as well to prepare for a potential enhancement next year.



# Fixed

- Fixed: Fixed unneeded slowness in the image api as some debug code got left in there

- Fixed: Fixed invalid date showing on tasks screen

- Fixed: Fixed a long standing parser bug where series would parse as Love Hina Vol. 30 Chapter 22 when the file was Love Hina Vol. 30 Chapter 22 - Vol 30 Omakes

- Fixed: (Kavita+) Fixed a bug where Kavita+ wasn't being sent the ids from Weblinks

- Fixed: Fixed a loader showing on the webtoon reader when it shouldn't have

- Fixed: Fixed a critical issue where fresh installs that invite a user have their own admin account's side nav and dashboard streams wiped out

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where Smart filters would always evaluate to descending sort

- Fixed: Fixed a bug where some progress bars wouldn't report series progress correctly



# Known Issue

- Some users on iOS are reporting issues with the webtoon reader. I spent a week working with one user but unfortunately unable to reproduce. I will look into buying an iOS device next year. 

