---
title: 'v0.4.2 - Downloading and Redesigned Manga Reader!'
image: /uploads/posts/kavita-logo.png
date: 2021-06-30
tags:
  - 'Release'
  - 'Kavita'
---

Welcome to v0.4.2! This release we saw 2 new developers join on and help in closing issues and building new features. This release also is home to a complete redesign of the Manga/Comic reader, the ability to download files from the UI, tons of parsing enhancements around specials and book grouping, and more user experience enhancements.



In addition to the action packed change log, we have added a new service to our mix. First, our website is now hosted at kavitareader.com instead of the previous github.io url. We now have KavitaStats, which is our way to collect anonymous install data to help us better understand our users. We collect important information like version of Kavita you run, types of files you use Kavita with, your OS, and your culture. There is no way to tie this data back to the end user. You can opt out under server settings.



We have a demo available! Want to try before you download? Then try out our demo. You can find the link and username/password on our [readme](https://github.com/Kareadita/Kavita).



We are now on [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/kavita) if you want to sponsor or donate to the project. Open Collective allows for transparent accounting around where your money is going to. Donators will now show on the Readme. We appreciate any support.





## Added

- Added a filter to the Directory to quickly filter folders and made the folder list scrollable rather than scrolling the whole body of the modal

- Added ability to change the port Kavita listens on from Admin page. Requires server restart to take effect.

- Added ability to change logging level from the Admin page. Requires server restart to take effect.

- Library type and number of folders shared is now visible on Manga Libraries page

- Ability to download your files! This role must be assigned to users, it is not enabled by default. Will automatically zip up if there are multiple files. Can download individual volume/chapters or whole series.

- Added a way to force Kavita to treat a file as a "Special" by using SP##, where # is a number in the filename. 

- Added rel="norefferrer" on all links within a user's epubs to prevent tracking

- Book Series grouping is now supported

  - Epub 3.2's can now use ```belongs-to-collection``` tag to group books into series [Spec](https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/1356)

  - Any Epub can use ```calibre:series_index, calibre:series, calibre:title_sort``` [Details](https://github.com/Kareadita/Kavita/issues/290)





## Changed

- Specials on the UI are now sorted before being displayed

- Directory Picker will now let you share the current folder from any time in the picker flow

- Headings are now consistent between User Preferences and Admin screen

- Specials in the UI now hide the extensions

- Reworked how errors are handled within the app to hopefully reduce the amount of duplicate errors received

- Major rework on how book reader stores progress within a single page. With new method, it should work for any book. Resume to exact line you left off from any device. 

- Complete redesign of the Manga/Comic reader [View GIF](https://www.kavitareader.com/img/features/new-reader.gif)

  - Menu now opens in a bottom drawer and has a scroller to jump to pages, jump to first/last page, and jump between volume/chapters

  - Quick actions easily available to change reading direction, change reader mode, color tones, and access extended settings

  - Extended settings area for settings unlikely changed

  - Ability for menu drawer to auto close after 6 seconds. You can adjust within extended settings or on user settings page

  - Ability to apply extra darkness or a sepia tone to reduce blue light

  - New reader modes: Left/Right, Up/Down

  - Information about the volume/chapter you are reading is now showed in the top drawer

  - When applying reader modes or reading directions, the clickable areas will now show an overlay to help you understand where to click

  - Image scaling and Image splitting now show some contextual icons to help the user understand what they do

  - Close book button is now in the top drawer menu

- (Book Reader) Show current page and total pages on the progress bar in setting drawer

- Dark mode is the default for new users

-  .DS_Store and @eadir directories are completely skipped the Scanner

- Scanner will now pickup files without any numbers in them. This means files that couldn't previously be parsed will show up as a filename in your series.

- Removed "Anthology" as a keyword for treating a file as Special due to series having this word in their name.

- When debug log level, database parameters will be written to logger. This is not sensitive data and aids developers. 

- Redesigned Login Screen and Nav bar



## Fixed

- Fixed an issue with Continuous Reading button not working correctly after manually updating a volume with multiple chapters as read/unread

- Fixed a bug on Directory Picker where pressing "Go Back" could result in being stuck not on Drive list 

- Dark mode theme is not persisting when logging out of app

- When marking a series as read/unread, the in progress activity stream does not update

- Continue reading button was broken on Firefox due to the way Firefox implemented a sort

- "Amazing Man Comics chapter 21" would parse series as "Amazing Man Comics chapter" and volume "21" 

- "Amazing Man Comics issue #21" would parse series as "Amazing Man Comics issue" and volume "21"

- Some archive files when opened for reading would be in a shuffled order resulting in bad reading order

- Fixed some inconsistencies in getting next/prev chapter item for Continuous Reader

- Fixed an unusual issue for arm versions of the docker container where files would fail if timestamp info wasn't copied over