---
title: 'v0.4.5 - OPDS Support'
image: /uploads/posts/kavita-logo.png
date: 2021-08-31
tags:
  - 'Release'
  - 'Kavita'
---

OPDS support is here! This has been a hot ask from many users and we have delivered. Admins can now enable OPDS for their server and users can grab their own OPDS url from User Settings. If users are using a client that supports OPDS-PS (page streaming) then their progress will be recorded on Kavita (Currently only chunky for iOS supports this). In addition we support Open Search out of the box, for clients that support searching, you can do full text searching just like on Kavita.



In addition we fixed a rare case where stat collection would take up resources or timeout when our hosting would go down, locking up your system. Even if disabled, the collection code ran (but it wouldn't send it out) and could block the main thread. This has been resolved. If stat collection is disabled, nothing will run and in cases it is enabled, it is all done in a separate thread. 



# Added

- Added: OPDS with Open Search and Page Streaming support. This must be enabled at the server level for any feeds to work. Disabling it will instantly stop serving any feeds. Page Streaming means you can stream one page at a time and will capture progress. See our wiki for how this works. (#526)

- Added: API key for users. In order for users to use OPDS, they must use a uniquely generated OPDS Feed url generated for them. This uses an API key, which acts as a password for the user to load up their libraries, etc. (#526)

- Added: Timeout added for Stat collection. After 30 seconds, fail the stat collection and try again the next day. (#526)

- Added: (Parser) Added support for MangaPy's default naming convention to parser: vol_001-1.cbz (#538)



# Fixed

- Fixed: Fixed an issue with ordering of chapters within a volume for selecting first cover image. (#524)

- Fixed: Fixed an issue where when new files were added, the Series cover wouldn't be set due to a logic miss when changing cover generation code from last release. (#527)

- Fixed: On desktop devices, when reading with fit to width or original, next page wouldn't reset scroll position. (#535)



# Changed

- Changed: Stat collection now runs in a separate thread and will not block startup. Checks for if stat collection is enabled will now occur in more places to ensure extra work takes place if it's not enabled. (#534)

- Changed: (Accessibility) Updated Server Settings and User Settings to handle better on screen readers (#352)

